DataSousChef Product Specification — working scaffold Version 0.4 (scaffold, key decisions resolved) · Author: Helen · Status: in progress How to use this scaffold This document turns your interaction design into the skeleton of a buildable product specification. Sections already settled by your design work, proposed from our earlier discussion, or grounded in the Leeds data-quality guide (see References) are filled in. The remaining genuine gaps are flagged so you can fill them in, ideally before handing any of this to an AI development agent. ▢ TO COMPLETE — marks something that must be supplied before the section is buildable. Guidance: italic grey notes explain what a section is for and what good input looks like. Plain text (draft — confirm or amend) is content I've pre-filled for you to accept, edit, or reject. Contents TOC \h \o "1-3" How to use this scaffold PAGEREF _Toc232785016 \h 1 Contents PAGEREF _Toc232785017 \h 1 1. Product overview PAGEREF _Toc232785018 \h 1 1.1 Purpose PAGEREF _Toc232785019 \h 1 1.2 Target users PAGEREF _Toc232785020 \h 1 1.3 Core principle PAGEREF _Toc232785021 \h 1 1.4 Functional scope of the four procedures PAGEREF _Toc232785022 \h 1 Procedure 1 — Check, correct and standardise (single-column) PAGEREF _Toc232785023 \h 1 Procedure 2 — Cross-column checks (outliers &amp; logical conflicts) PAGEREF _Toc232785024 \h 1 Procedure 3 — Link multiple datasets PAGEREF _Toc232785025 \h 1 Procedure 4 — Optimise code from feedback PAGEREF _Toc232785026 \h 1 2. Privacy constraint &amp; data-handling policy PAGEREF _Toc232785027 \h 1 2.1 What never leaves the user's machine PAGEREF _Toc232785028 \h 1 2.2 What is sent to the backend PAGEREF _Toc232785029 \h 1 2.3 The screenshot leak risk PAGEREF _Toc232785030 \h 1 3. User journey &amp; interaction design PAGEREF _Toc232785031 \h 1 3.1 First contact — landing page PAGEREF _Toc232785032 \h 1 3.2 Second contact — questionnaires &amp; confirmation PAGEREF _Toc232785033 \h 1 3.3 Third contact — script delivery &amp; validation loop PAGEREF _Toc232785034 \h 1 3.4 Loop guard &amp; exits PAGEREF _Toc232785035 \h 1 4. The questionnaires PAGEREF _Toc232785036 \h 1 4.1 Questionnaire design principles PAGEREF _Toc232785037 \h 1 4.2 Questionnaire I — Diagnose &amp; standardise PAGEREF _Toc232785038 \h 1 4.3 Questionnaire II — Cross-column logic &amp; outliers PAGEREF _Toc232785039 \h 1 4.4 Questionnaire III — Link multiple datasets PAGEREF _Toc232785040 \h 1 5. The data contract (intermediate representation) PAGEREF _Toc232785041 \h 1 6. Backend architecture PAGEREF _Toc232785042 \h 1 6.1 Hosting &amp; runtime PAGEREF _Toc232785043 \h 1 6.2 Rule-based vs LLM split PAGEREF _Toc232785044 \h 1 6.3 Model &amp; provider PAGEREF _Toc232785045 \h 1 6.4 Script assembly PAGEREF _Toc232785046 \h 1 6.5 Agent topology decision PAGEREF _Toc232785047 \h 1 7. The generated script — output contract PAGEREF _Toc232785048 \h 1 7.1 Libraries PAGEREF _Toc232785049 \h 1 7.2 Script structure PAGEREF _Toc232785050 \h 1 7.3 Printed diagnostics (what the user validates against) PAGEREF _Toc232785051 \h 1 7.4 Defensive-coding requirements PAGEREF _Toc232785052 \h 1 8. Troubleshooting &amp; optimisation loop (procedure 4) PAGEREF _Toc232785053 \h 1 8.1 How feedback reaches the system PAGEREF _Toc232785054 \h 1 8.2 Context the troubleshooter receives PAGEREF _Toc232785055 \h 1 8.3 Privacy handling of uploads PAGEREF _Toc232785056 \h 1 8.4 Loop guard PAGEREF _Toc232785057 \h 1 9. Session &amp; state management PAGEREF _Toc232785058 \h 1 10. Non-functional requirements PAGEREF _Toc232785059 \h 1 10.1 Accessibility PAGEREF _Toc232785060 \h 1 10.2 Privacy enforcement PAGEREF _Toc232785061 \h 1 10.3 Browser &amp; device support PAGEREF _Toc232785062 \h 1 10.4 Performance &amp; cost PAGEREF _Toc232785063 \h 1 11. Open questions &amp; decisions to make PAGEREF _Toc232785064 \h 1 12. References &amp; basis PAGEREF _Toc232785065 \h 1 1. Product overview 1.1 Purpose DataSousChef helps data analysts, researchers and evaluators clean and process messy administrative data before analysis. Because administrative data carries strong protection requirements, users never upload their data. Instead they describe their dataset and their desired output through structured forms, and the tool generates a Python script they download and run locally. 1.2 Target users Primary users are not data-savvy. They understand their own data in domain terms but may not know technical concepts such as data types, encodings, or how missing values are represented. The product must elicit the necessary technical detail through plain-language prompts and examples rather than assuming the user can volunteer it. 1.3 Core principle No dataset — whole or partial — is ever uploaded to or transmitted by the system. Only descriptions of the data travel to the backend. All processing of real data happens on the user's own machine. 1.4 Functional scope of the four procedures Guidance: The scope below is adapted from the Leeds data-quality guide's task list; the codes (C-#, DQ-#) point to the relevant task in that guide so a developer can trace each capability to a defined check. Confirm and trim to what you want in the first release. Procedure 1 — Check, correct and standardise (single-column) Correct the stored data type where it is wrong (dates held as text, categories held as numbers) — C-7, DQ-20. Normalise formats so values of the same type match: date formats, decimal places, significant figures — C-6, C-13, DQ-21, DQ-30. Trim stray whitespace and standardise capitalisation and stray symbols — C-5. Flag and recode the special and missing values the user describes (e.g. 999, N/A, blank) before any other step — C-9, C-10, DQ-7. Standardise units where a column mixes them — C-14, DQ-28. Harmonise category labels and fold described synonyms into one agreed value — DQ-19, DQ-29. Check values against an allowed set and flag those outside it — DQ-19. Out of scope: anything that needs the tool to read the real values to decide what is correct. The generated script flags such cases for the user to judge locally, since the data never leaves their machine. Procedure 2 — Cross-column checks (outliers &amp; logical conflicts) Ordering rules, e.g. an end date must not precede a start date — DQ-23. Difference / range plausibility between two columns (is the gap sensible?) — DQ-23. Functional dependencies, e.g. age must agree with date of birth — DQ-36. Totals or sums that should reconcile across columns. Conditional requiredness and mutual exclusivity (if A is present, B must / must not be) — DQ-31. Contradictions between records that should agree, e.g. same person with two dates of birth — DQ-34. Correlated outliers — a value plausible alone but not given another column — DQ-33. Cross-dataset integrity — something implied in one place but missing in another — DQ-37. Outlier methods offered: inter-quartile range, z-score, percentile thresholds, or fixed plausibility bounds the user supplies — C-18, C-19, DQ-24. By default the script flags and reports conflicts; it auto-corrects only where the user has given an unambiguous rule Procedure 3 — Link multiple datasets Supported: deterministic exact-key joins and normalised-key joins (the key is standardised for case, whitespace and format first). Before joining, the script checks identifiers for consistency across datasets — different structures or word orderings (DQ-5, DQ-6) and synonym/homonym naming conflicts (DQ-29). Unmatched records and duplicate keys are reported, never silently dropped (DQ-11, DQ-34, DQ-37). Fuzzy / probabilistic matching is in scope but deferred until after the prototype: the first demonstrable version supports exact and normalised joins only. When fuzzy matching is added, it will follow this decision flow: ask user what is the prime unit of the datasets will be linked for analysis, for example, a student, a module in a course, an event, or a class → what unique identifiers in each dataset will be used to link the datasets, if not sure prompt the relationships of the unique identifiers, for example does a unique student only appears in a unique class or does a unique module only appear in a unique course to gain a clear understanding of the relationships between the unique identifiers and decide whether one or a combination of several unique identifiers will be needed to link the datasets → if exact match is not possible, alert users to confirm whether proposed fuzzy match should be processed → Yes, process fuzzy match and enable the output contain a column to estimate the probability of exact match for each case. Procedure 4 — Optimise code from feedback Not a user-selected task. It is the troubleshooting / iteration loop (Section 3.3) that regenerates a script in response to validation feedback or errors. 2. Privacy constraint &amp; data-handling policy 2.1 What never leaves the user's machine The dataset itself, in any form, including samples, single values, or column extracts. 2.2 What is sent to the backend Only the structured descriptions captured by the questionnaires (the data contract in Section 5): column names, described types, formats, coded values and the desired output — supplied by the user, never read from a file. 2.3 The screenshot leak risk The validation and troubleshooting loop asks users to share printed output or error messages, which can inadvertently contain real data values and breach the core promise. Policy: (a) design the script's printed diagnostics to be value-free — counts, flags, column names and before/after summaries only, never raw values (see Section 7.3); (b) ask the user to share that diagnostic summary or the error traceback, not data output; (c) show redaction guidance before any paste or upload. Because the diagnostics carry no values, a shared screenshot leaks nothing. 3. User journey &amp; interaction design 3.1 First contact — landing page Heading: “What can I do for you today? Please select all that apply.” Three multi-select options: (1) “Diagnose problems in my dataset and standardise its format”; (2) “Check for logical conflicts across columns and spot outliers”; (3) “Link two or more datasets together.” Plus a “Need help deciding? Read me” link. “Read me” explainer: Preparing data usually takes the largest share of any analysis. It often takes more than half the work, and most of that time is spent checking and tidying the data. This tool helps with that checking-and-tidying step in two ways: it describes what your data is like and finds quality problems for you to fix. You describe your data by answering short questions. Nothing about your data ever leaves your computer. You then get a Python script to run yourself. (1) “Diagnose problems in my dataset and standardise its format”: a step-by-step guide to help you find hidden problems in your dataset. For example, it can find extra spaces before or after a column heading, or values that mean the same thing but are written in different ways, such as F, f, Female and female in a column called Gender. You can use the customised Python script to clean your dataset and make the formats consistent. (2) “Check for logical conflicts across columns and spot outliers”: for more complex datasets, or for several datasets with columns that relate to each other. For example, one column may be called Age and another Date of birth. This function can compare the two columns to check that each person’s age matches their date of birth, and that there are no unusual ages or dates of birth in the dataset. (3) “Link two or more datasets together”: this function helps you decide what the unit of analysis is, such as a person, event or course module. It also helps you identify which unique identifier, or combination of identifiers, is needed to link the datasets, and whether either dataset contains duplicates. This helps the script carry out an exact match or, if supported and confirmed by the user, a fuzzy match. 3.2 Second contact — questionnaires &amp; confirmation Based on the user's selection (I, II, III, or any combination), the matching questionnaire(s) gather dataset information. The described need is then restated for confirmation before any code is generated. Confirmation screen: shows a plain-language summary of each column's described type, format and treatment, each cross-column rule, and any linkage plan, with an “Edit” control beside each item that returns the user to the relevant question. Generation only proceeds once the user confirms. 3.3 Third contact — script delivery &amp; validation loop The user downloads the generated Python file and is reminded to check the printed diagnostics to validate the result. Three branches follow: Validation successful → celebration message ends the loop. Validation failed (script ran, output wrong) → user shares the printed diagnostic summary → troubleshooting → regenerated script → loop until success. Hard error (nothing produced) → user shares the error traceback → troubleshooting → regenerated script → loop until success. 3.4 Loop guard &amp; exits Default to three regeneration attempts. On the fourth failure, stop the loop, hand the user the best script so far plus a plain-language summary of the unresolved issue, and offer to start over. The user can abandon or restart at any point. 4. The questionnaires 4.1 Questionnaire design principles Ask in plain language; never assume the user knows terms like “datatype” or “encoding”. Offer examples to recognise rather than facts to recall (e.g. “Does this column ever look like any of these? 999, N/A, blank, unknown”). Prefer dropdowns and pick-from-examples over free text where possible, for a clean data contract. Capture the user's quirks knowledge — the messy realities only they know — since the system cannot see the data. 4.2 Questionnaire I — Diagnose &amp; standardise Guidance: Repeats per column. Drawn from Leeds tasks C-2/5/6/7/9/10/13/14/15 and DQ-7/12/19/20/21/29. Confirm and trim. Field Input type Prompt shown to user / example answer Info Dataset name / purpose Short text “What is this dataset, in a sentence?” For example, a student survey named as … File format Dropdown CSV / Excel (.xlsx) / other the extension of your file name in the file explorer Text encoding Dropdown Usually UTF-8; choose “unsure” if unknown (C-2) Expected no. of rows Number “Roughly how many records should there be?” (DQ-3, C-4) Usually, each row means a record Columns involved Short text “Which columns do you need to check and clean? Please include all the columns that you need for analysis, including unique identifiers and the columns that you need to define what should be included in or excluded from different analyses.” Column name (as in file) Short text “Type or copy and paste the column header exactly as it appears. If the column has no header, please put ‘No header’” What it represents Short text “In plain words, what does this column hold?” For example, students’ grades Expected type Dropdown Date / Whole number / Number with decimal / Category / Free text / ID code (C-7, DQ-20) “Category” example: a column whose values come from a fixed set, such as White, Asian, Black, Mixed. “Free text” example: a comments box where someone might write a whole sentence, such as “Started the course late owing to illness”. Format &amp; examples Short text “Show 2–3 examples of a correct value.” (C-6) For example: DD/MM/YYYY for “Date”; 2.34, 45.67 for “Number with decimal” Units Short text “If it's a measurement, what unit? e.g. £, kg, %” (C-14) Expected value length Short text “Should every value be the same length? e.g. a 7-character code” (C-15) “Yes” if every value has the same number of characters, such as a 7-character code like UG-1234. “No” if the length varies, such as names, or numbers ranging from 1 to 1000. How missing is coded Multi-select + text blank / 0 / 999 / N/A / unknown / other (C-9, DQ-7) If the column has no missing values, leave this blank. If missing values are written in a particular way — for example an empty cell, 0, 999, or text such as “unknown” — tick or type how they appear. Special values Repeatable text “Any value with a special meaning? e.g. 999 = not known” (C-10) Should values be unique? Yes / No “Should every value differ, e.g. an ID?” (DQ-12) Allowed values (categories) Repeatable text List every value this column is allowed to contain. If the same thing is sometimes written in more than one way, tell us which versions should count as the same. For example, a Gender column might allow Male, Female and Other. If it also contains F, f and female, group those together as Female. (DQ-19, DQ-29) Known quirks Multi-select mixed formats / trailing spaces / inconsistent capitalisation / stray symbols (C-5, DQ-21) Desired standard output Short text “How should values look after cleaning?” 4.3 Questionnaire II — Cross-column logic &amp; outliers Guidance: About relationships between columns. Drawn from Leeds tasks DQ-23/31/33/34/36/37 and C-18/19, DQ-24. Step one: Please make sure all the columns you want to examine have been cleaned. If not, please return to select option 1 (add link to the landing page) Step two: Capture the checks. The structured checklist below is what the tool saves and turns into code; the free-text box is an optional way to begin by describing the checks in your own words. “In your own words, what would you like to check? This is optional — you can go straight to the checklist below. For example: ‘Using Course Commence Date, Withdrawal Date and Course Completion Date — the Course Commence Date must be earlier than the Withdrawal Date, and these three dates cannot all apply to the same record.’” Date/time order — One date must fall on or before another. Example: a course end date can't be earlier than its start date; a withdrawal date can't precede enrolment. Involved columns: Rules: Difference plausible — The gap between two values has to be sensible, not just in the right direction. Example: the time between enrolment and graduation should sit in a believable range — not two months, not forty years. Involved columns: Rules: Age vs date of birth — Two columns describing the same fact must agree. Example: if you hold both an age and a date of birth, the age should match the date of birth. (The general case: any value that's derived from another should agree with it.) Involved columns: Rules: Totals reconcile — Numbers that should add up, do. Example: term 1 + term 2 + term 3 equals the annual total; headcounts by category sum to the overall headcount. Involved columns: Rules: Conditional required — If one thing is true, another must be filled in. Example: if outcome is "withdrawn," a withdrawal date must be present; if a student is flagged international, the fee-status field shouldn't be blank. Involved columns: Rules: Mutually exclusive — Two things can't both be true at once. Example: a record can't be both full-time and part-time, or both "completed" and "still enrolled." Involved columns: Rules: Step three: Summarise the request and ask user to confirm 4.4 Questionnaire III — Link multiple datasets Guidance: Configures the join, with consistency pre-checks from Leeds tasks DQ-5/6/29 and duplicate/integrity DQ-11/34/37. Field Input type Prompt shown to user / example answer Status Datasets to link Repeatable Name each dataset being joined. draft Unique identifier(s) Short text “Which column(s) match records across datasets?” draft Identifier consistency Dropdown Identical / different formatting / different word order / partial / unsure (DQ-5, DQ-6, DQ-29) draft Match type Dropdown Exact / Normalised (tidy then match) / Fuzzy (only if you choose to support it — see 1.4) draft Join type Dropdown Keep all from first / only matches / all from both draft On duplicates / no match Dropdown Report and keep / report and drop unmatched / stop and warn (DQ-11, DQ-34) draft 5. The data contract (intermediate representation) Guidance: The hinge of the system: the single structured object the questionnaires produce and the code generator consumes. It also carries transforms applied so far, so a column renamed in procedure 1 is known to be the join key in procedure 3. The shape below now reflects the Leeds profiling attributes (units, precision, special values, expected uniqueness, value length). { "dataset": { "name": "Enrolments 2024-25", "format": "xlsx", "encoding": "utf-8", "expected_rows": 4200, "procedures": [1, 2, 3] }, "columns": [ { "source_name": "Prog Code", "meaning": "Programme identifier", "expected_type": "id", "format_examples": ["UG-1234", "PG-0567"], "allowed_values": null, "units": null, "precision": null, "missing_codes": ["", "N/A"], "special_values": {"999": "not known"}, "expected_unique": true, "value_length": {"min": 7, "max": 7}, "quirks": ["trailing_spaces", "mixed_case"], "target_output": "uppercase, no spaces", "transforms_applied": [] } ], "cross_column_rules": [ {"type": "date_order", "columns": ["start_date", "end_date"], "rule": "end_date &gt;= start_date", "on_conflict": "flag"} ], "linkage": {"datasets": ["A", "B"], "keys": ["student_id"], "match_type": "normalised", "join": "all_from_A", "on_unmatched": "report"} } Resolved — The data contract is now defined as runnable Pydantic models in data_contract.py, which is the canonical source of truth; a JSON Schema for the static front end is generated from it. Finalised enums: expected_type (text, integer, float, date, datetime, boolean, category, id); match_type (exact, normalised, fuzzy); join (all_from_first, only_matches, all_from_both); on_conflict (flag, suggest, autocorrect); on_unmatched (report_keep, report_drop, stop). The per-column transforms_applied sketch is realised as one ordered pipeline on the contract, folded by current_columns() so a column renamed in procedure 1 stays consistent as the join key in procedure 3. 6. Backend architecture 6.1 Hosting &amp; runtime Guidance: DataSousChef is on GitHub Pages, which is static and has no backend. Any LLM call or rule engine must run elsewhere, and the API key must never reach the browser. Resolved: the backend is a Firebase Cloud Function written in Python. It holds the Gemini API key and is the only thing the static GitHub Pages front end calls, so the browser never sees the key. The front end sends the data contract (descriptions only) and receives the generated script text. Because the functions are Python, the data contract module (data_contract.py) is the backend’s source of truth. Operational notes — the Cloud Function needs the pay-as-you-go (Blaze) plan to make outbound calls to Gemini, and CORS configured so the GitHub Pages origin can call it. Azure is the planned production target once institutional buy-in is secured (most UK universities hold Azure contracts); keep the Gemini call, rule engine and script assembly framework-agnostic behind a thin Firebase adapter so that migration is cheap. Still to confirm: the exact request/response shape and rate-limiting. 6.2 Rule-based vs LLM split Hybrid design: routine, deterministic work is templated by rules; ambiguous reasoning is handled by the LLM. The Leeds guide notes many profiling tasks need only calculation and textual output — those are the rule-based ones. (draft — confirm or amend) Sub-task Handled by Notes Type casting / trimming / case Rule Mechanical once the contract is known. Date-format normalisation Rule Templated when the format is stated; LLM only to interpret a free-text description. Mapping coded/missing/special values Rule Direct from the contract. Category harmonisation / synonyms LLM Maps to naming conflicts (DQ-29); synonym grouping is genuinely fuzzy. Cross-column rule → code LLM Interprets the rule the user wrote in words (DQ-35, DQ-36). Outlier detection Rule Standard method chosen in the form (C-18, DQ-24). Linkage key normalisation Rule Deterministic for exact/normalised; LLM only if fuzzy is added. Troubleshooting / regeneration LLM Needs prior script + contract + error. 6.3 Model &amp; provider Resolved — Google Gemini, called server-side from the Firebase (Python) function so the key stays off the browser. Confirm the specific Gemini model variant and a per-request cost ceiling once you have load-tested typical contracts; expected token sizes are modest because only descriptions, never data, are sent. 6.4 Script assembly The rule engine emits deterministic code fragments from the data contract; the LLM emits fragments for the ambiguous parts; an assembler stitches them in workflow order into one script with shared imports, a single data read and consistent variable names. Because the procedures share the data contract, a column renamed in step 1 is automatically the correct key in step 3. (draft — confirm or amend) 6.5 Agent topology decision Recommended starting point: a single generation agent operating over the shared data contract, with the troubleshooting/optimiser kept as a separate concern. Promote individual procedures (most likely linkage) to specialised prompts only if a single prompt underperforms. (draft — confirm or amend) 7. The generated script — output contract 7.1 Libraries pandas for tabular work, with openpyxl so the script can write its cleaned output as an .xlsx file. matplotlib only if a visual summary is offered. For procedure 3, pandas merge suffices for the exact and normalised joins in scope; the recordlinkage library is deferred along with fuzzy matching. Worth evaluating: vizdataquality, the Python package that implements the Leeds six-step workflow on top of pandas and matplotlib — it could supply the profiling/diagnostic output directly. Keep dependencies minimal and print the pip install command for non-technical users. (draft — confirm or amend) 7.2 Script structure Mirror the Leeds six-step order so output reads predictably: (1) load the file and show its shape; (2) flag and recode special/missing values; (3) report missingness; (4) standardise and check each column; (5) check cross-column rules and, where requested, perform linkage; (6) print the cleaned-data summary. Each section clearly commented; one configurable file-path variable at the top; a single data read. (draft — confirm or amend) 7.3 Printed diagnostics (what the user validates against) Guidance: The whole validation loop depends on this, and per Section 2.3 it must be value-free. The script prints: rows read and rows written; per column — nulls and special values recoded (C-9, C-10, DQ-7), count of values changed during standardisation, number of unique values and whether expected uniqueness held (C-11, DQ-12), and min/max value length (C-15); for numeric columns a distribution summary — min, max, mean, key percentiles (C-17, C-19); count of exact duplicate records (DQ-11); for each cross-column rule, how many records violated it (DQ-22, DQ-36); for linkage, counts of matched, unmatched and duplicate-key records (DQ-37); and a final “checks passed / N issues found” line. No raw values are printed. (draft — confirm or amend) 7.4 Defensive-coding requirements Because the code cannot be tested centrally against the data, the generated script validates its own assumptions — asserts expected columns exist, handles a missing file gracefully, and fails with a plain-language message rather than a raw traceback where possible. (draft — confirm or amend) 8. Troubleshooting &amp; optimisation loop (procedure 4) 8.1 How feedback reaches the system Recommended: rather than uploading a screenshot, ask the user to paste the text of the error traceback or the printed diagnostic summary into a box — more reliable for the model than OCR and easier to redact. Offer the screenshot route only as a fallback. (draft — confirm or amend) 8.2 Context the troubleshooter receives To regenerate correctly the troubleshooter needs the previously generated script, the data contract, and the new error or validation feedback. Without all three it will guess. (draft — confirm or amend) 8.3 Privacy handling of uploads Show the redaction guidance from Section 2.3 before any paste or upload, and steer the user to share the value-free diagnostic summary rather than data output. (draft — confirm or amend) 8.4 Loop guard Default to three regeneration attempts (see Section 3.4); on exhaustion, provide the best script so far plus a plain-language summary of the unresolved issue. (draft — confirm or amend) 9. Session &amp; state management Guidance: The loop assumes the system remembers the user's selections, the data contract and the last script across turns. Use is account-based, not anonymous. A subscription is required, because the product calls a paid model (Gemini) on the user’s behalf and the token costs must be covered. Creating an account means collecting limited personal data such as name, email and billing details; under UK GDPR this is lawful on the bases of consent, contract (to provide the subscribed service) and legitimate interest. This does not change the core privacy promise: the user’s administrative dataset still never leaves their machine — accounts and billing concern identity and payment only, not the data being cleaned. Record the personal data collected and these lawful bases in a short privacy notice. ▢ TO COMPLETE — Confirm whether users may optionally save / reload a data contract locally to re-run later. 10. Non-functional requirements 10.1 Accessibility Target WCAG 2.2 AA. Given non-data-savvy users: plain-language labels, no jargon, visible help text and examples on every question, full keyboard operability, and clear, specific error messages. (draft — confirm or amend) 10.2 Privacy enforcement No data-transmitting code path may exist; treat any as a defect (links to Section 2). (draft — confirm or amend) 10.3 Browser &amp; device support Resolved — Supported browsers: Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Safari on macOS — current and recent versions. Desktop is the primary target. 10.4 Performance &amp; cost Recommended — Performance: aim for a median generation under 15 seconds and 95% under 30 seconds, with a visible progress indicator and a 60-second hard timeout that fails gracefully. Cost: use a Flash-tier Gemini model (not Pro, which is roughly four times the price) as the default. Because only short descriptions are sent, a typical generation is a few thousand tokens in and out — on current Gemini Flash pricing (about $0.30–$1.50 per million input and $2.50–$9.00 per million output, June 2026) that is roughly £0.01–£0.04 per generation; verify against Google’s live pricing page, which changes often, and remember the troubleshooting loop can multiply this per task. Cap each request (a maximum number of columns/rules per contract, and a maximum output-token limit) so no single generation can balloon. Guard against runaway spend with a hard monthly budget cap and billing alert on the Google Cloud account, per-account rate limits, and a monthly generation quota tied to each subscription tier. Use the paid tier, not the free tier, so users’ descriptions are not used to improve Google’s models. Then set each subscription price so that (generations included per month) × (cost per generation) × a safety margin sits comfortably below the price — this keeps the product solvent as usage grows. (Prices change and this is not financial advice; confirm current rates before you commit to a tier price.) 11. Open questions &amp; decisions to make Guidance: A parking lot for unresolved decisions, so they aren't silently assumed by an AI developer. Resolved — The script writes its cleaned output as an Excel (.xlsx) file, a safe and familiar format for non-data-savvy users, saved alongside the input file. Resolved — Sequential questionnaire flow: where procedures are combined, they run in order with dependencies honoured (e.g. Questionnaire II asks the user to confirm columns are cleaned first, as in Section 4.3), rather than one merged form. ▢ TO COMPLETE — Licensing and any terms users must accept regarding generated code. Resolved — Fuzzy / probabilistic linkage is in scope but deferred until after the prototype; the first version supports exact and normalised joins only (see Section 1.4.3). 12. References &amp; basis The data-quality and profiling scope, questionnaire fields and script diagnostics in this specification are adapted, with attribution, from the following openly licensed guide. Task identifiers (C-#, DQ-#) throughout refer to its task list; the script structure follows its six-step workflow. Ruddle, R. A., Cheshire, J., &amp; Johansson Fernstad, S. (2024). A Practical Guide to Characterising Data and Investigating Data Quality. University of Leeds. Licensed CC BY 4.0. https://doi.org/10.5518/1481 Associated checklist spreadsheet (six-step workflow) and the vizdataquality Python package are referenced from the same record.
